# Introduction

This docmentation provides a guide for pymatgen administrators. The following 
assumes you are using miniconda or Anaconda.

# Releases

The general procedure to releasing pymatgen comprises three steps.

1. Wait for all unittests to pass on CircleCI.
2. Update and edit change log.
2. Release PyPI versions + doc.
3. Release conda versions.
4. Release Dash documentation.

## Initial setup

Install some conda tools first.

```bash
conda install --yes conda-build anaconda-client
```

Pymatgen uses [invoke](http://www.pyinvoke.org/) to automate releases. You will 
also need sphinx and dash2doc. Install these using:

```bash
pip install --upgrade invoke sphinx doc2dash
```

For 2018, we will release both py27 and py37 versions of pymatgen. Create 
environments for py27 and py37 using conda.

```bash
conda create --yes -n py37 python=3.7
conda create --yes -n py27 python=2.7
```

For each env, install some packages using conda followed by dev install for 
pymatgen.

```bash
conda activate py37
conda install --yes numpy scipy sympy matplotlib cython
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-optional.txt
pip install invoke sphinx doc2dash
python setup.py develop
conda activate py27
conda install --yes numpy scipy sympy matplotlib cython
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-optional.txt
pip install invoke sphinx doc2dash
python setup.py develop
```

Add your PyPI username and passwrod into your environment:

```bash
export TWINE_USERNAME=PYPIUSERNAME
export TWINE_PASSWORD=PYPIPASSWORD
```

You may want to add these to your .bash_profile to avoid having to type these each time.

### Machine-specific issues

The above instructions are general, but there are some known issues that are machine-specific:

* Installing lxml via pip required `STATIC_DEPS=true pip install lxml` on macOS 10.13.
* It can be useful to `pip install --upgrade pip twine setuptools` (this may be necessary if there are authentication errors when connecting to PyPI).

## Doing the release

First update the change log. The autogenerated change log is simply a list of 
commit messages since the last version.  Make sure to edit the log for brevity
and to attribute significant features to appropriate developers.

```bash
conda activiate py37
invoke update-changelog
```

Make sure your GITHUB_RELEASES_TOKEN is set appropriately. Then, do the release
with the following sequence of commands (you can put them in a bash script in
your PATH somewhere):


```bash
conda activate py37
invoke release --notest --nodoc
conda deactivate
conda activate py27
python setup.py bdist_wheel
twine upload dist/*p27*

# You may wonder why update-doc is done with py27. The reason is because there
# are py37 incompatibilities with some of doc2dash dependencies (lxml). We
# will go back to using py37 by default in future.
invoke update-doc
conda deactivate
python setup.py develop
```

Double check that the releases are properly done on Pypi.

## Materials.sh

Fork and clone the [materials.sh](https://github.com/materialsvirtuallab/materials.sh).
This repo contains the conda skeletons to build the conda versions for various
matsci codes on the [matsci channel](https://anaconda.org/matsci) in Anaconda.

The first time this is run, you may need to `pip install beautifulsoup4`.

If you doing this for the first time, make sure conda-build and anaconda-client are installed.
```bash
conda install --yes conda-build anaconda-client
```

Update the pymatgen meta.yaml.

```bash
invoke update-pypi pymatgen
```

Build the mac versions manually.
```bash
invoke build-conda pymatgen
```

Commit and push to repo, which will build the Linux and Windows versions.

Check that the [matsci channel](https://anaconda.org/matsci) versions are
properly updated.

## Dash docs

Fork and clone the [Dash User Contributions repo](https://github.com/Kapeli/Dash-User-Contributions).

Generate the offline Dash doc using:
```bash
invoke contribute-dash
```

Create a pull request and submit.
