---
layout: default
title: pymatgen.command_line.bader_caller.md
nav_exclude: true
---

# pymatgen.command_line.bader_caller module

This module implements an interface to the Henkelmann et al.’s excellent
Fortran code for calculating a Bader charge analysis.

This module depends on a compiled bader executable available in the path.
Please download the library at [http://theory.cm.utexas.edu/henkelman/code/bader/](http://theory.cm.utexas.edu/henkelman/code/bader/)
and follow the instructions to compile the executable.

If you use this module, please cite:

G. Henkelman, A. Arnaldsson, and H. Jonsson, “A fast and robust algorithm for
Bader decomposition of charge density”, Comput. Mater. Sci. 36, 254-360 (2006).


### _class_ pymatgen.command_line.bader_caller.BaderAnalysis(chgcar_filename=None, potcar_filename=None, chgref_filename=None, parse_atomic_densities=False, cube_filename=None, bader_exe_path: str | None = None)
Bases: `object`

Performs Bader analysis for Cube files and VASP outputs.


#### data()
Atomic data parsed from bader analysis. Each dictionary in the list has the keys:
“atomic_vol”, “min_dist”, “charge”, “x”, “y”, “z”.


* **Type**

    list[dict]



#### vacuum_volume()
Vacuum volume of the Bader analysis.


* **Type**

    float



#### vacuum_charge()
Vacuum charge of the Bader analysis.


* **Type**

    float



#### nelectrons()
Number of electrons of the Bader analysis.


* **Type**

    int



#### chgcar()
Chgcar object associated with input CHGCAR file.


* **Type**

    [Chgcar](pymatgen.io.vasp.outputs.md#pymatgen.io.vasp.outputs.Chgcar)



#### atomic_densities()
List of charge densities for each atom centered on the atom.
Excess 0’s are removed from the array to reduce its size. Each dictionary has the keys:
“data”, “shift”, “dim”, where “data” is the charge density array,
“shift” is the shift used to center the atomic charge density, and
“dim” is the dimension of the original charge density map.


* **Type**

    list[dict]


Initializes the Bader caller.


* **Parameters**


    * **chgcar_filename** (*str*) – The filename of the CHGCAR.


    * **potcar_filename** (*str*) – The filename of the POTCAR.


    * **chgref_filename** (*str*) – The filename of the reference charge density.


    * **parse_atomic_densities** (*bool**, **optional*) – turns on atomic partition of the charge density
    charge densities are atom centered


    * **cube_filename** (*str**, **optional*) – The filename of the cube file.


    * **bader_exe_path** (*str**, **optional*) – The path to the bader executable.



#### _classmethod_ from_path(path, suffix='')
Convenient constructor that takes in the path name of VASP run
to perform Bader analysis.


* **Parameters**


    * **path** (*str*) – Name of directory where VASP output files are
    stored.


    * **suffix** (*str*) – specific suffix to look for (e.g. ‘.relax1’
    for ‘CHGCAR.relax1.gz’).



#### get_charge(atom_index)
Convenience method to get the charge on a particular atom. This is the “raw”
charge generated by the Bader program, not a partial atomic charge. If the cube file
is a spin-density file, then this will return the spin density per atom with
positive being spin up and negative being spin down.


* **Parameters**

    **atom_index** – Index of atom.



* **Returns**

    Charge associated with atom from the Bader analysis.



#### get_charge_decorated_structure()
Returns a charge decorated structure.

Note, this assumes that the Bader analysis was correctly performed on a file
with electron densities


#### get_charge_transfer(atom_index, nelect=None)
Returns the charge transferred for a particular atom. A positive value means
that the site has gained electron density (i.e. exhibits anionic character)
whereas a negative value means the site has lost electron density (i.e. exhibits
cationic character). If the arg nelect is not supplied, then POTCAR must be
supplied to determine nelect.


* **Parameters**


    * **atom_index** – Index of atom.


    * **nelect** – number of electrons associated with an isolated atom at this index.
    For most DFT codes this corresponds to the number of valence electrons
    associated with the pseudopotential (e.g. ZVAL for VASP).



* **Returns**

    Charge transfer associated with atom from the Bader analysis.
    Given by bader charge on atom - nelect for associated atom.



#### get_decorated_structure(property_name, average=False)
Get a property-decorated structure from the Bader analysis.

This is distinct from getting charge decorated structure, which assumes
the “standard” Bader analysis of electron densities followed by converting
electron count to charge. The expected way to use this is to call Bader on
a non-charge density file such as a spin density file, electrostatic potential
file, etc., while using the charge density file as the reference (chgref_filename)
so that the partitioning is determined via the charge, but averaging or integrating
is done for another property.

User warning: Bader analysis cannot automatically determine what property is
inside of the file. So if you want to use this for a non-conventional property
like spin, you must ensure that you have the file is for the appropriate
property and you have an appropriate reference file.


* **Parameters**


    * **property_name** – name of the property to assign to the structure, note that
    if name is “spin” this is handled as a special case, and the appropriate
    spin properties are set on the species in the structure


    * **average** – whether or not to return the average of this property, rather
    than the total, by dividing by the atomic volume.



* **Returns**

    structure with site properties assigned via Bader Analysis



#### get_oxidation_state_decorated_structure(nelects=None)
Returns an oxidation state decorated structure based on bader analysis results.
Each site is assigned a charge based on the computed partial atomic charge from bader.

Note, this assumes that the Bader analysis was correctly performed on a file
with electron densities


#### get_partial_charge(atom_index, nelect=None)
Convenience method to get the partial charge on a particular atom. This is
simply the negative value of the charge transferred. A positive value indicates
that the atom has cationic character, whereas a negative value indicates the
site has anionic character.


* **Parameters**


    * **atom_index** – Index of atom.


    * **nelect** – number of electrons associated with an isolated atom at this index.
    For most DFT codes this corresponds to the number of valence electrons
    associated with the pseudopotential (e.g. ZVAL for VASP).



* **Returns**

    Charge associated with atom from the Bader analysis.



#### _property_ summary()
Dict summary of key analysis, e.g., atomic volume, charge, etc.


* **Type**

    return



### pymatgen.command_line.bader_caller.bader_analysis_from_objects(chgcar, potcar=None, aeccar0=None, aeccar2=None)
Convenience method to run Bader analysis from a set
of pymatgen Chgcar and Potcar objects.

This method will:

1. If aeccar objects are present, constructs a temporary reference
file as AECCAR0 + AECCAR2
2. Runs Bader analysis twice: once for charge, and a second time
for the charge difference (magnetization density).


* **Parameters**


    * **chgcar** – Chgcar object


    * **potcar** – (optional) Potcar object


    * **aeccar0** – (optional) Chgcar object from aeccar0 file


    * **aeccar2** – (optional) Chgcar object from aeccar2 file



* **Returns**

    summary dict



### pymatgen.command_line.bader_caller.bader_analysis_from_path(path, suffix='')
Convenience method to run Bader analysis on a folder containing
typical VASP output files.

This method will:

1. Look for files CHGCAR, AECCAR0, AECCAR2, POTCAR or their gzipped
counterparts.
2. If AECCAR\* files are present, constructs a temporary reference
file as AECCAR0 + AECCAR2
3. Runs Bader analysis twice: once for charge, and a second time
for the charge difference (magnetization density).


* **Parameters**


    * **path** – path to folder to search in


    * **suffix** – specific suffix to look for (e.g. ‘.relax1’ for ‘CHGCAR.relax1.gz’



* **Returns**

    summary dict